Coming into this semester I had very few expectations since I had never done coding before. However my expectations of myself was to learn enough code that I could be confident in my basic coding abilities and feel like I have enough coding ability to create a whole (and working) program. The main thing I had expected was to have resources (such as the professor) available to help me should I need it, and that expectation was definitely met. I also didn’t know that you could find basically anything online for code so that was nice to find out. 
 
My goal was to create enough working programs to feel like I have accomplished something this semester. I wanted to learn enough code so that if I need to use it in the future I will have it as a resource that I can rely on or am capable of understanding other people when they talk about basic coding. 
 
I feel like I accomplished a lot this semester. In summary: I made a website, completed all of the coding challenges, and created my own game of hangman in python. In order to accomplish these tasks I had to do a fair amount of internet searching and learning of basic concepts.
Each week outside of class I probably averaged 3-4 hours of coding although that number would vary from week to week depending on how much work I had in a particular project to do or how hard I found the project to be. 
The websites and coding tutorials I looked at were mostly for hangman or for defining basic need to know coding terms. The tutorial I looked at to start hangman was: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m4nEnsavl6w along with the code from https://www.pythonforbeginners.com/code-snippets-source-code/game-hangman https://inventwithpython.com/invent4thed/chapter8.html https://gist.github.com/saltavenger/3939185 
I also used https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_arrays.asp for basic coding terms and definitions. 
 
My goals evolved over the semester from just merely learning basic terms and coding to being able to apply them to something fun that I wanted to do. At the start of the semester I just wanted to learn basic things, but by the middle of the semester I set the goal of being able to compile the basic things I had learned in python to create a project (hangman) that would run and I would have fun doing. 
 
The first way in which I felt successful this semester was when I created my website (https://houckao.github.io/ )  and could add everything I needed into it. This also shows all of the code that I am especially proud of on the website with pictures. 
The second way in which I felt accomplished was in my ability to navigate my github (https://github.com/houckao ) and add all of my projects onto the account so that I can go back and add or update all of my projects. This made me feel successful because I was also able to put all of the coding challenges and projects that I was proud of accomplishing into one place. 
Finally the thing that made me feel the most successful this semester was the completion of hangman from start to finish. Being able to conceptualize the code and customize the features on it made me feel extremely successful because it was an accumulation of everything I had learned over the semester and it was something that I wanted to do and I felt it was more complex than anything else I had accomplished this semester. 
 
Although I am confident in my ability to create code, I still feel like I may struggle to understand a lot of the terminology that coders may use. Should I end up in a job that uses coding I have the feeling that I would not be able to follow what they are saying unless I can visually see the code that they are referring to. 
 
I’ve started working with one of my friends who is good at coding and uses a whole lot of the terminology around me which helps me to connect what I am doing to the title/name of the coding things I am using (like lists, arrays, dictionaries etc.). Being around him has helped me feel more confident in my ability to understand coders and their other language. 
 
I certainly feel more educated as without this class I would have never been exposed to coding. However, after this class I feel like I have the basic skills to be able to talk with people who code on a regular basis about things which is something I could never have done before this class as it would have gone right over my head. This also helped me to enlighten my future path as I know the basics of this class and how it can be useful in the future whether or not I choose to pursue coding. 
 
This is the first concentration class that I have taken that I have not wanted to concentrate in. (Sorry!) This class has helped me in order to narrow down potential career options since this class has proven that coding is just not my thing. I feel like I could be really good at coding but it’s just not something that I prefer to be doing within my career. I figured out that I would much prefer to be doing biotechnology or energy. However this class has helped me to get enough experience to not be wondering “what if I had chosen that path” because after this class I know that it is not for me. This class has also shown to me that I am in the right major as I get to explore the potential right paths for me in order to stifle the ‘what if’ curiosity inside of me that may say that I am not on the right path when I know that I am. 
 
Of course, I would like you to report an A for the semester. I feel like I have put enough effort and work into this class and it shows in the work that I accomplished this semester. With the exception of the week that I took off for mental health reasons, I have come to every single group meeting with something to show for the previous week’s worth of work and I think that at this point that I have proved I am not a slacker and am willing to put in the work in order to get the grade. 
